README.md, before:

# TTRPG convert CLI

![GitHub all releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/ebullient/ttrpg-convert-cli/total?color=success)

A Command-Line Interface designed to convert TTRPG data from 5eTools and Pf2eTools into crosslinked, tagged, and formatted markdown optimized for [Obsidian.md](https://obsidian.md).

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->
<table><tr>
<td>Jump</td>
<td><a href="#install-the-ttrpg-convert-cli">⬇ Download</a></td>
<td><a href="docs/configuration.md">⚙️ Configuration</a></td>
<td><a href="examples/">🎨 Examples</a></td>
<td><a href="examples/templates">🎨 Templates</a></td>
</tr><tr>
<td><a href="CHANGELOG.md">🚜 Changelog</a></td>
<td><a href="docs/sourceMap.md">🗺️ Source Map</a></td>
<td><a href="#convert-5etools-json-data">📖 5eTools</a></td>
<td><a href="#convert-pf2etools-json-data">📖 Pf2eTools</a></td>
<td><a href="#convert-homebrew-json-data">📖 Homebrew</a></td>
</tr></table>

I use [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) to keep track of my campaign notes. This project parses json sources for materials that I own from the 5etools mirror to create linked and formatted markdown that I can reference in my notes.

> [!TIP]
>
> - 🚜 [**Review the changelog**](CHANGELOG.md) for new capabilities (✨) and breaking changes (🔥💥).
> - 🔮 Check out [**Conventions**](#conventions) and  [**Recommendations**](#recommendations-for-using-the-cli)

## Using the Command Line

This tool works in the command line, which is a text-based way to give instructions to your computer.
If you're new to it, we have resources to help you get started below.

If you don't have a favorite method already, or you don't know what those words mean, here are some resources to get you started:

- For MacOS / OSX Users:
    - Start with the built-in `Terminal` application.
    - [Learn the Mac OS X Command Line][]
- For Windows Users:
    - Use the native [Command Prompt][]
    - [Open a command prompt in a folder (Windows)][]
    - [Running executables from the command line (Windows)][]
    - To show emoji in Windows Commmand Prompt: `chcp 65001` and choose a font with emoji support (Consolas is one).

[Learn the Mac OS X Command Line]: https://blog.teamtreehouse.com/introduction-to-the-mac-os-x-command-line
[Command Prompt]: https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/how-to-use-command-prompt/
[Open a command prompt in a folder (Windows)]: https://www.lifewire.com/open-command-prompt-in-a-folder-5185505
[Running executables from the command line (Windows)]: https://www.techwalla.com/articles/how-to-use-quotcdquot-command-in-command-prompt-window

## Install the TTRPG Convert CLI

There are several (many!) options for running `ttrpg-convert`.
Choose whichever you are the most comfortable with:

- **Using Windows?** See the [Windows README](README-WINDOWS.md)
- `jbang`: [Use JBang!][jbang] (hides Java; sets up command aliases)
- `brew`: [Use Homebrew (MacOS or Linux)][brew] (hides Java; sets up command aliases)
- `bin`: [Use a pre-built platform binary][bin] (no Java required)
- `jar`: [Use Java to run the jar][jar]
- `src`: [Build from source][src]

| Platform       | Options  |
|----------------|----------|
|  Linux         | [jbang][], [brew][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][] |
|  Mac (Arm)     | [jbang][], [brew][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][] |
|  Mac (Intel)   | [jbang][], [brew][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][] |
|  Windows       | [📝](README-WINDOWS.md), [jbang][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][]  |
|  Windows (Old) | [📝](README-WINDOWS.md), [jbang][], [jar][], [src][]  |
|  Windows (WSL) | [jbang][], [brew][], [jar][], [src][] |

[jbang]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-jbang
[brew]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-homebrew
[bin]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-pre-built-platform-binary
[jar]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-java-to-run-the-jar
[src]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#build-and-run-from-source

## Recommendations for using the CLI

- 🔐 Treat generated content as a big ball of mud. Stick it in a corner of your vault *treat it as read-only*.

    Trust us, you will want to regenerate content from time to time. It is cheap and easy to do if you don't have your own edits to worry about.

- 🔎 Have the CLI generate output into a separate directory and use a comparison tool to preview changes.  

    You can use `git diff` to compare arbitrary directories, for example:

    ```bash
    git diff --no-index vault/compendium/bestiary generated/compendium/bestiary
    ```

- 📑 Use a copy tool that only updates modified files, like [rsync][], to avoid unnecessary file copying when updating your vault. Use the checksum option (`-c`) to compare file contents; the file modification date is meaningless given generated files are recreated when the tool is run. We have some suggestions in [discussion #220][sync-discussion], but it is very much a work in progress.

[rsync]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/19540611
[sync-discussion]: https://github.com/ebullient/ttrpg-convert-cli/discussions/220

### Required plugins

- **Admonitions** ([git](https://github.com/javalent/admonitions)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-admonition)): The admonitions plugin supports a codeblock style that is used for more complicated content like statblocks. See [Admonition plugin notes](docs/README.md#admonitions) for more recommendations.

### Recommended plugins

- **Force note view mode by front matter** ([git](https://github.com/bwydoogh/obsidian-force-view-mode-of-note)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-view-mode-by-frontmatter)): I use this plugin to treat these generated notes as essentially read-only. See [Force note view mode plugin settings](docs/README.md#force-note-view-mode-by-front-matter) for recommendations.

- **Fantasy Statblocks** ([git](https://github.com/javalent/fantasy-statblocks)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-5e-statblocks)): Templates for rendering monsters can define a `statblock` in the document body or provide a full or abridged yaml monster in the document header to update monsters in the plugin's bestiary.
    - See [Fantasy Statblocks plugin settings](docs/README.md#fantasy-statblocks) for recommendations.
    - See [Templates](examples/templates) for related template customization.

- **Initiative Tracker** ([git](https://github.com/javalent/initiative-tracker)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=initiative-tracker)): Templates for rendering monsters can include information in the header to define monsters that initiative tracker can use when constructing encounters. See [Initiative Tracker plugin settings](docs/README.md#initiative-tracker) for recommendations.

## Conventions

- **Links.** Documents generated by this plugin will use markdown links rather than wiki links. A [css snippet](examples/css-snippets/hide-markdown-link-url.css) can make these links less invasive in edit mode by hiding the URL portion of the string.

- **File names.** To avoid conflicts and issues with different operating systems, all file names are slugified (all lower case, symbols stripped, and spaces replaced by dashes). This is a familiar convention for those used to jekyll, hugo, or other blogging systems.

    - File names for resources outside of the core books (PHB, MM, and DMG) have the abbreviated source name appended to the end to avoid file collisions.
    - All files have an `aliases` attribute that contains the original name of the resource.

- **Organization.** Files are generated in two roots: `compendium` and `rules`. The location of these roots is [configurable](docs/configuration.md#specify-target-paths-paths-key). These directories will be populated depending on the sources you have enabled.

    - `compendium` contains files for items, spells, monsters, etc.
    The `compendium` directory is further organized into subdirectories for each type of content. For example, all items are in the `compendium/items` directory.  

    - `rules` contains files for conditions, weapon properties, variant rules, etc.

    - `css-snippets` will contain **CSS files for special fonts** used by some content. You will need to copy these snippets into your vault (`.obsidian/snippets`) and enable them (`Appearance -> Snippets`) to ensure all content in your vault is styled correctly.

- **Styles.** Every document has a `cssclasses` attribute that assigns a CSS class. We have some [CSS snippets](examples/css-snippets/) that you can use to customize elements of the compendium.
    - 5e tools: `json5e-background`, `json5e-class`, `json5e-deck`, `json5e-deity`, `json5e-feat`, `json5e-hazard`, `json5e-item`, `json5e-monster`, `json5e-note`, `json5e-object`, `json5e-psionic`, `json5e-race`, `json5e-reward`, `json5e-spell`, and `json5e-vehicle`.
    - pf2e tools: `pf2e`, `pf2e-ability`, `pf2e-action`, `pf2e-affliction`, `pf2e-archetype`, `pf2e-background`, `pf2e-book`, `pf2e-delity`, `pf2e-feat`, `pf2e-hazard`, `pf2e-index`, `pf2e-item`, `pf2e-note`, `pf2e-ritual`, `pf2e-sleep`, `pf2e-trait`.

- **Admonitions.** Generated content uses code-block-style [Admonitions](docs/README.md#admonitions) in addition to Obsidian callouts. We have [Admonition definitions](examples/admonitions/) that you can import to ensure these admonition/callout types are defined.
    - `ad-statblock`
    - 5e tools: `ad-flowchart`, `ad-gallery`, `ad-embed-action`, `ad-embed-feat`, `ad-embed-monster`, `ad-embed-object`, `ad-embed-race`, `ad-embed-spell`, `ad-embed-table`
    - pf2e tools: `ad-embed-ability`, `ad-embed-action`, `ad-embed-affliction`, `ad-embed-avatar`, `ad-embed-disease`, `ad-embed-feat`, `ad-embed-item`, `ad-pf2-note`, `ad-pf2-ritual`.

## Convert 5eTools JSON data

> [!NOTE]
> Instructions here use backslashes to wrap lines for readability (a common practice for linux-based command shells).
> *If you are using Windows*, you will need to remove the backslashes and put the command on a single line. You may also need to append `.exe` to the command name (though it should work without).

1. Create a shallow clone of the 5eTools mirror repo (which can/should be deleted afterwards):

    ```shell
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/5etools-mirror-2/5etools-mirror-2.github.io.git
    ```

2. Invoke the CLI. In this first example, let's generate indexes and markdown for SRD content:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
      --index \
      -o dm \
      5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
    ```

    - `--index` generates two index files: `all-index.json` and `src-index.json`.

        > 🚀 TIP:
        > - Use `all-index.json` to see the reference keys for all discovered content. This can confirm that an included source was actually read.
        > - Use `src-index.json` to see the reference keys for content that was included in the generated output. This can confirm that your source selection is working as expected.

    - `-o dm` The target output directory (`dm` in this case). Files will be created in this directory.

    The rest of the command-line specifies input files:

    - `5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data` Path to the 5etools `data` directory (from a clone or release of the repo)

    This should produce a set of markdown files in the `dm` directory that contains only SRD content.

3. Invoke the command again and include additional sources:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
        --index \
        -o dm \
        -s PHB,DMG,SCAG \
        5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
    ```

    - `-s PHB,DMG,SCAG` will include reference material from the *Player's Handbook*, the *Dungeon Master's Guide*, and the *Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide*.

        > 🚀 Note: Only include content you own. Find the identifier for your sources in the [Source Map](./docs/sourceMap.md#source-name-mapping-for-5etools).

We now know that the CLI is working!

Specifying sources on the command line with the `-s` option gets messy in a hurry. Configuration beyond this basic example should use a configuration file, specified with the `-c` option, like this:

```shell
ttrpg-convert \
    --index \
    -o dm \
    -c my-config.json \
    5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
```

Next step:

- Create your own [configuration file](docs/configuration.md).

## Convert Pf2eTools JSON data

🚜 🚧 🚜 🚧 🚜 🚧 🚜 🚧

> [!NOTE]
> Instructions here use backslashes to wrap lines for readability (a common practice for linux-based command shells).
> *If you are using Windows*, you will need to remove the backslashes and put the command on a single line. You may also need to append `.exe` to the command name (though it should work without).

1. Download a release of the Pf2eTools mirror, or create a shallow clone of the repo (which can/should be deleted afterwards):

    ```shell
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/Pf2eToolsOrg/Pf2eTools.git
    ```

2. Invoke the CLI. In this first example, let's generate indexes and markdown for default content:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
      -g pf2e \
      --index \
      -o dm \
      Pf2eTools/data
    ```

    - `-g pf2e` The game system! Pathfinder 2e!
    - `--index` generates two index files: `all-index.json` and `src-index.json`.

      > 🚀 TIP:
      > - Use `all-index.json` to see the reference keys for all discovered content. This can confirm that an included source was actually read.
      > - Use `src-index.json` to see the reference keys for content that was included in the generated output. This can confirm that your source selection is working as expected.

    - `-o dm` The target output directory. Files will be created in this directory.

    The rest of the command-line specifies input files:

    - `Pf2eTools/data` Path to the Pf2eTools `data` directory (from a clone or release of the repo)

3. Invoke the command again and include additional sources:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
        -g pf2e \
        --index \
        -o dm \
        -s AV1,GMG \
        Pf2eTools/data
    ```

    - `-s AV1,GMG` will include reference material from the *Abomination Vaults #1: Ruins of Gauntlight*, and the *Gamemastery Guide*.

        > 🚀 Note: Only include content you own. Find the identifier for your sources in the [Source Map](./docs/sourceMap.md#source-name-mapping-for-pf2etools).

We now know that the CLI is working!

Specifying sources on the command line with the `-s` option gets messy in a hurry. Configuration beyond this basic example should use a configuration file, specified with the `-c` option, like this:

```shell
ttrpg-convert \
    -g pf2e \
    --index \
    -o dm \
    -c my-config.json \
    Pf2eTools/data
```

Next step:

- Create your own [configuration file](docs/configuration.md).

## Convert Homebrew JSON data

The CLI tool also has the ability to import homebrewed content, though this content must still fit the json standards that are set by in the [5eTools json spec][5etools JSON] or the PF2eTools json spec (coming soon, similar to 5eTools).

Perhaps the simplest thing to do to import homebrew is to use already existing homebrew data from the 5etools homebrew github repo: <https://github.com/TheGiddyLimit/homebrew>.

> [!TIP]
> 🍺 *You only need the particular file you wish to import*.
>
> Homebrew data is different from the 5etools data. Each homebrew file is a complete reference. If you compare it to cooking: the 5etools mirror repo is organized by ingredient (all of the carrots, all of the onions, ... ); homebrew data is organized by prepared meal / complete receipe.

Adding homebrew content is easiest if you use a [configuration file](./docs/configuration.md), we will assume a file named `my-config.json` for the example below, but you can use any name you like.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 🚀 Respect copyrights and support content creators; use only the sources you own.

For example, if you wanted to use Benjamin Huffman's popular homebrewed [Pugilist class](https://www.dmsguild.com/product/184921/The-Pugilist-Class):

1. Download a copy of the [Pugilist json file](https://github.com/TheGiddyLimit/homebrew/blob/master/class/Benjamin%20Huffman%3B%20Pugilist.json).

    Save this file to a well-known location on your computer. It is probably easiest if it sits next your 5eTools or Pf2eTools directory.

2. Update your [configuration file](docs/configuration.md) to add a `homebrew` section under `full-source`:

    ```json
    {
      "full-source": {
        "homebrew": [
            "path/to/Benjamin Huffman; Pugilist.json"
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    - `path/to/` is a placeholder for a relative or absolute path to the file[^1]. There are a few ways to figure out the path to a file.
        - You may be able to drag and drop the file into the terminal window.
        - You may have the ability to right-click on the file and select "Copy Path".
        - *Windows users*: When pasting the path into a text editor, use find/replace to replace all `\` with `/`.

3. Run the command like so (for 5e homebrew):

    ``` shell
    ttrpg-convert \
        --index \
        -o hb-compendium \
        -c my-config.json
        5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
    ```

    - `-o hb-compendium` is the output directory for generated content.
    - `-c my-config.json'` is the name and/or path to your configuration file.

See [configuration](docs/configuration.md) for more details on how to configure the CLI.

The process is similar for other homebrew, including your own, so long as it is broadly compatible with the [5e-tools json spec](https://wiki.tercept.net/en/Homebrew/FromZeroToHero).

## Where to find help

- There is a `#cli-support` thread in the `#tabletop-games` channel of the [Obsidian Discord](https://discord.gg/veuWUTm).
- There is a `TTRPG-convert-help` post in the `obsidian-support` forum of the [Obsidian TTRPG Community Discord](https://discord.gg/Zpmr37Uv).
- There is a TTRPG-convert tutorial (currently aimed at Windows users, but much of it is helpful no matter your OS) at [Obsidian TTRPG Tutorials](https://obsidianttrpgtutorials.com/Obsidian+TTRPG+Tutorials/Plugin+Tutorials/TTRPG-Convert-CLI/TTRPG-Convert-CLI+5e).
- If you open an issue for an error, run with the `--debug` and `--log` options, and attach the log file to the issue.

### Want to help fix it?

- If you're familiar with the command line and are comfortable running the tool, I hope you'll consider running [unreleased snapshots](docs/alternateRun.md#using-unreleased-snapshots) and reporting issues.
- If you want to contribute, I'll take help of all kinds: documentation, examples, sample templates, stylesheets are just as important as Java code. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Other notes

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework. If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its website: <https://quarkus.io/>.

This project is a derivative of [fc5-convert-cli](https://github.com/ebullient/fc5-convert-cli), which focused on working to and from FightClub5 Compendium XML files. It has also stolen some bits and pieces from [pockets-cli](https://github.com/ebullient/pockets-cli).

[5etools JSON]: https://wiki.tercept.net/en/Homebrew/FromZeroToHero

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ebullient" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/v2/default-blue.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 60px !important;width: 217px !important;" ></a>

[^1]: Description of relative vs absolute file paths: <https://stackoverflow.com/a/10288252> . If you use a relative path, it will be resolved relative to the current working directory, as described here: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_directory>.

Commit message:

📝 Add example for dataview and aliases

README.md, after:

# TTRPG convert CLI

![GitHub all releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/ebullient/ttrpg-convert-cli/total?color=success)

A Command-Line Interface designed to convert TTRPG data from 5eTools and Pf2eTools into crosslinked, tagged, and formatted markdown optimized for [Obsidian.md](https://obsidian.md).

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->
<table><tr>
<td>Jump</td>
<td><a href="#install-the-ttrpg-convert-cli">⬇ Download</a></td>
<td><a href="docs/configuration.md">⚙️ Configuration</a></td>
<td><a href="examples/">🎨 Examples</a></td>
<td><a href="examples/templates">🎨 Templates</a></td>
</tr><tr>
<td><a href="CHANGELOG.md">🚜 Changelog</a></td>
<td><a href="docs/sourceMap.md">🗺️ Source Map</a></td>
<td><a href="#convert-5etools-json-data">📖 5eTools</a></td>
<td><a href="#convert-pf2etools-json-data">📖 Pf2eTools</a></td>
<td><a href="#convert-homebrew-json-data">📖 Homebrew</a></td>
</tr></table>

I use [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) to keep track of my campaign notes. This project parses json sources for materials that I own from the 5etools mirror to create linked and formatted markdown that I can reference in my notes.

> [!TIP]
>
> - 🚜 [**Review the changelog**](CHANGELOG.md) for new capabilities (✨) and breaking changes (🔥💥).
> - 🔮 Check out [**Conventions**](#conventions) and  [**Recommendations**](#recommendations-for-using-the-cli)

## Using the Command Line

This tool works in the command line, which is a text-based way to give instructions to your computer.
If you're new to it, we have resources to help you get started below.

If you don't have a favorite method already, or you don't know what those words mean, here are some resources to get you started:

- For MacOS / OSX Users:
    - Start with the built-in `Terminal` application.
    - [Learn the Mac OS X Command Line][]
- For Windows Users:
    - Use the native [Command Prompt][]
    - [Open a command prompt in a folder (Windows)][]
    - [Running executables from the command line (Windows)][]
    - To show emoji in Windows Commmand Prompt: `chcp 65001` and choose a font with emoji support (Consolas is one).

[Learn the Mac OS X Command Line]: https://blog.teamtreehouse.com/introduction-to-the-mac-os-x-command-line
[Command Prompt]: https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/how-to-use-command-prompt/
[Open a command prompt in a folder (Windows)]: https://www.lifewire.com/open-command-prompt-in-a-folder-5185505
[Running executables from the command line (Windows)]: https://www.techwalla.com/articles/how-to-use-quotcdquot-command-in-command-prompt-window

## Install the TTRPG Convert CLI

There are several (many!) options for running `ttrpg-convert`.
Choose whichever you are the most comfortable with:

- **Using Windows?** See the [Windows README](README-WINDOWS.md)
- `jbang`: [Use JBang!][jbang] (hides Java; sets up command aliases)
- `brew`: [Use Homebrew (MacOS or Linux)][brew] (hides Java; sets up command aliases)
- `bin`: [Use a pre-built platform binary][bin] (no Java required)
- `jar`: [Use Java to run the jar][jar]
- `src`: [Build from source][src]

| Platform       | Options  |
|----------------|----------|
|  Linux         | [jbang][], [brew][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][] |
|  Mac (Arm)     | [jbang][], [brew][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][] |
|  Mac (Intel)   | [jbang][], [brew][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][] |
|  Windows       | [📝](README-WINDOWS.md), [jbang][], [bin][], [jar][], [src][]  |
|  Windows (Old) | [📝](README-WINDOWS.md), [jbang][], [jar][], [src][]  |
|  Windows (WSL) | [jbang][], [brew][], [jar][], [src][] |

[jbang]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-jbang
[brew]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-homebrew
[bin]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-pre-built-platform-binary
[jar]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#use-java-to-run-the-jar
[src]: ./docs/alternateRun.md#build-and-run-from-source

## Recommendations for using the CLI

- 🔐 Treat generated content as a big ball of mud. Stick it in a corner of your vault *treat it as read-only*.

    Trust us, you will want to regenerate content from time to time. It is cheap and easy to do if you don't have your own edits to worry about.

- 🔎 Have the CLI generate output into a separate directory and use a comparison tool to preview changes.  

    You can use `git diff` to compare arbitrary directories, for example:

    ```bash
    git diff --no-index vault/compendium/bestiary generated/compendium/bestiary
    ```

- 📑 Use a copy tool that only updates modified files, like [rsync][], to avoid unnecessary file copying when updating your vault. Use the checksum option (`-c`) to compare file contents; the file modification date is meaningless given generated files are recreated when the tool is run. We have some suggestions in [discussion #220][sync-discussion], but it is very much a work in progress.

[rsync]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/19540611
[sync-discussion]: https://github.com/ebullient/ttrpg-convert-cli/discussions/220

### Required plugins

- **Admonitions** ([git](https://github.com/javalent/admonitions)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-admonition)): The admonitions plugin supports a codeblock style that is used for more complicated content like statblocks. See [Admonition plugin notes](docs/README.md#admonitions) for more recommendations.

### Recommended plugins

- **Force note view mode by front matter** ([git](https://github.com/bwydoogh/obsidian-force-view-mode-of-note)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-view-mode-by-frontmatter)): I use this plugin to treat these generated notes as essentially read-only. See [Force note view mode plugin settings](docs/README.md#force-note-view-mode-by-front-matter) for recommendations.

- **Fantasy Statblocks** ([git](https://github.com/javalent/fantasy-statblocks)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=obsidian-5e-statblocks)): Templates for rendering monsters can define a `statblock` in the document body or provide a full or abridged yaml monster in the document header to update monsters in the plugin's bestiary.
    - See [Fantasy Statblocks plugin settings](docs/README.md#fantasy-statblocks) for recommendations.
    - See [Templates](examples/templates) for related template customization.

- **Initiative Tracker** ([git](https://github.com/javalent/initiative-tracker)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=initiative-tracker)): Templates for rendering monsters can include information in the header to define monsters that initiative tracker can use when constructing encounters. See [Initiative Tracker plugin settings](docs/README.md#initiative-tracker) for recommendations.

- **Dataview** ([git](https://github.com/blacksmithgu/obsidian-dataview)/[obsidian](obsidian://show-plugin?id=dataview)): This plugin can be used to create custom views of the data, and to create custom queries to find and display data in your vault. See [Working with dataview](docs/README.md#working-with-dataview) for recommendations.

## Conventions

- **Links.** Documents generated by this plugin will use markdown links rather than wiki links. A [css snippet](examples/css-snippets/hide-markdown-link-url.css) can make these links less invasive in edit mode by hiding the URL portion of the string.

- **File names.** To avoid conflicts and issues with different operating systems, all file names are slugified (all lower case, symbols stripped, and spaces replaced by dashes). This is a familiar convention for those used to jekyll, hugo, or other blogging systems.

    - File names for resources outside of the core books (PHB, MM, and DMG) have the abbreviated source name appended to the end to avoid file collisions.
    - All files have an `aliases` attribute that contains the original name of the resource.

- **Organization.** Files are generated in two roots: `compendium` and `rules`. The location of these roots is [configurable](docs/configuration.md#specify-target-paths-paths-key). These directories will be populated depending on the sources you have enabled.

    - `compendium` contains files for items, spells, monsters, etc.
    The `compendium` directory is further organized into subdirectories for each type of content. For example, all items are in the `compendium/items` directory.  

    - `rules` contains files for conditions, weapon properties, variant rules, etc.

    - `css-snippets` will contain **CSS files for special fonts** used by some content. You will need to copy these snippets into your vault (`.obsidian/snippets`) and enable them (`Appearance -> Snippets`) to ensure all content in your vault is styled correctly.

- **Styles.** Every document has a `cssclasses` attribute that assigns a CSS class. We have some [CSS snippets](examples/css-snippets/) that you can use to customize elements of the compendium.
    - 5e tools: `json5e-background`, `json5e-class`, `json5e-deck`, `json5e-deity`, `json5e-feat`, `json5e-hazard`, `json5e-item`, `json5e-monster`, `json5e-note`, `json5e-object`, `json5e-psionic`, `json5e-race`, `json5e-reward`, `json5e-spell`, and `json5e-vehicle`.
    - pf2e tools: `pf2e`, `pf2e-ability`, `pf2e-action`, `pf2e-affliction`, `pf2e-archetype`, `pf2e-background`, `pf2e-book`, `pf2e-delity`, `pf2e-feat`, `pf2e-hazard`, `pf2e-index`, `pf2e-item`, `pf2e-note`, `pf2e-ritual`, `pf2e-sleep`, `pf2e-trait`.

- **Admonitions.** Generated content uses code-block-style [Admonitions](docs/README.md#admonitions) in addition to Obsidian callouts. We have [Admonition definitions](examples/admonitions/) that you can import to ensure these admonition/callout types are defined.
    - `ad-statblock`
    - 5e tools: `ad-flowchart`, `ad-gallery`, `ad-embed-action`, `ad-embed-feat`, `ad-embed-monster`, `ad-embed-object`, `ad-embed-race`, `ad-embed-spell`, `ad-embed-table`
    - pf2e tools: `ad-embed-ability`, `ad-embed-action`, `ad-embed-affliction`, `ad-embed-avatar`, `ad-embed-disease`, `ad-embed-feat`, `ad-embed-item`, `ad-pf2-note`, `ad-pf2-ritual`.

## Convert 5eTools JSON data

> [!NOTE]
> Instructions here use backslashes to wrap lines for readability (a common practice for linux-based command shells).
> *If you are using Windows*, you will need to remove the backslashes and put the command on a single line. You may also need to append `.exe` to the command name (though it should work without).

1. Create a shallow clone of the 5eTools mirror repo (which can/should be deleted afterwards):

    ```shell
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/5etools-mirror-2/5etools-mirror-2.github.io.git
    ```

2. Invoke the CLI. In this first example, let's generate indexes and markdown for SRD content:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
      --index \
      -o dm \
      5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
    ```

    - `--index` generates two index files: `all-index.json` and `src-index.json`.

        > 🚀 TIP:
        > - Use `all-index.json` to see the reference keys for all discovered content. This can confirm that an included source was actually read.
        > - Use `src-index.json` to see the reference keys for content that was included in the generated output. This can confirm that your source selection is working as expected.

    - `-o dm` The target output directory (`dm` in this case). Files will be created in this directory.

    The rest of the command-line specifies input files:

    - `5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data` Path to the 5etools `data` directory (from a clone or release of the repo)

    This should produce a set of markdown files in the `dm` directory that contains only SRD content.

3. Invoke the command again and include additional sources:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
        --index \
        -o dm \
        -s PHB,DMG,SCAG \
        5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
    ```

    - `-s PHB,DMG,SCAG` will include reference material from the *Player's Handbook*, the *Dungeon Master's Guide*, and the *Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide*.

        > 🚀 Note: Only include content you own. Find the identifier for your sources in the [Source Map](./docs/sourceMap.md#source-name-mapping-for-5etools).

We now know that the CLI is working!

Specifying sources on the command line with the `-s` option gets messy in a hurry. Configuration beyond this basic example should use a configuration file, specified with the `-c` option, like this:

```shell
ttrpg-convert \
    --index \
    -o dm \
    -c my-config.json \
    5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
```

Next step:

- Create your own [configuration file](docs/configuration.md).

## Convert Pf2eTools JSON data

🚜 🚧 🚜 🚧 🚜 🚧 🚜 🚧

> [!NOTE]
> Instructions here use backslashes to wrap lines for readability (a common practice for linux-based command shells).
> *If you are using Windows*, you will need to remove the backslashes and put the command on a single line. You may also need to append `.exe` to the command name (though it should work without).

1. Download a release of the Pf2eTools mirror, or create a shallow clone of the repo (which can/should be deleted afterwards):

    ```shell
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/Pf2eToolsOrg/Pf2eTools.git
    ```

2. Invoke the CLI. In this first example, let's generate indexes and markdown for default content:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
      -g pf2e \
      --index \
      -o dm \
      Pf2eTools/data
    ```

    - `-g pf2e` The game system! Pathfinder 2e!
    - `--index` generates two index files: `all-index.json` and `src-index.json`.

      > 🚀 TIP:
      > - Use `all-index.json` to see the reference keys for all discovered content. This can confirm that an included source was actually read.
      > - Use `src-index.json` to see the reference keys for content that was included in the generated output. This can confirm that your source selection is working as expected.

    - `-o dm` The target output directory. Files will be created in this directory.

    The rest of the command-line specifies input files:

    - `Pf2eTools/data` Path to the Pf2eTools `data` directory (from a clone or release of the repo)

3. Invoke the command again and include additional sources:

    ```shell
    ttrpg-convert \
        -g pf2e \
        --index \
        -o dm \
        -s AV1,GMG \
        Pf2eTools/data
    ```

    - `-s AV1,GMG` will include reference material from the *Abomination Vaults #1: Ruins of Gauntlight*, and the *Gamemastery Guide*.

        > 🚀 Note: Only include content you own. Find the identifier for your sources in the [Source Map](./docs/sourceMap.md#source-name-mapping-for-pf2etools).

We now know that the CLI is working!

Specifying sources on the command line with the `-s` option gets messy in a hurry. Configuration beyond this basic example should use a configuration file, specified with the `-c` option, like this:

```shell
ttrpg-convert \
    -g pf2e \
    --index \
    -o dm \
    -c my-config.json \
    Pf2eTools/data
```

Next step:

- Create your own [configuration file](docs/configuration.md).

## Convert Homebrew JSON data

The CLI tool also has the ability to import homebrewed content, though this content must still fit the json standards that are set by in the [5eTools json spec][5etools JSON] or the PF2eTools json spec (coming soon, similar to 5eTools).

Perhaps the simplest thing to do to import homebrew is to use already existing homebrew data from the 5etools homebrew github repo: <https://github.com/TheGiddyLimit/homebrew>.

> [!TIP]
> 🍺 *You only need the particular file you wish to import*.
>
> Homebrew data is different from the 5etools data. Each homebrew file is a complete reference. If you compare it to cooking: the 5etools mirror repo is organized by ingredient (all of the carrots, all of the onions, ... ); homebrew data is organized by prepared meal / complete receipe.

Adding homebrew content is easiest if you use a [configuration file](./docs/configuration.md), we will assume a file named `my-config.json` for the example below, but you can use any name you like.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 🚀 Respect copyrights and support content creators; use only the sources you own.

For example, if you wanted to use Benjamin Huffman's popular homebrewed [Pugilist class](https://www.dmsguild.com/product/184921/The-Pugilist-Class):

1. Download a copy of the [Pugilist json file](https://github.com/TheGiddyLimit/homebrew/blob/master/class/Benjamin%20Huffman%3B%20Pugilist.json).

    Save this file to a well-known location on your computer. It is probably easiest if it sits next your 5eTools or Pf2eTools directory.

2. Update your [configuration file](docs/configuration.md) to add a `homebrew` section under `full-source`:

    ```json
    {
      "full-source": {
        "homebrew": [
            "path/to/Benjamin Huffman; Pugilist.json"
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    - `path/to/` is a placeholder for a relative or absolute path to the file[^1]. There are a few ways to figure out the path to a file.
        - You may be able to drag and drop the file into the terminal window.
        - You may have the ability to right-click on the file and select "Copy Path".
        - *Windows users*: When pasting the path into a text editor, use find/replace to replace all `\` with `/`.

3. Run the command like so (for 5e homebrew):

    ``` shell
    ttrpg-convert \
        --index \
        -o hb-compendium \
        -c my-config.json
        5etools-mirror-2.github.io/data
    ```

    - `-o hb-compendium` is the output directory for generated content.
    - `-c my-config.json'` is the name and/or path to your configuration file.

See [configuration](docs/configuration.md) for more details on how to configure the CLI.

The process is similar for other homebrew, including your own, so long as it is broadly compatible with the [5e-tools json spec](https://wiki.tercept.net/en/Homebrew/FromZeroToHero).

## Where to find help

- There is a `#cli-support` thread in the `#tabletop-games` channel of the [Obsidian Discord](https://discord.gg/veuWUTm).
- There is a `TTRPG-convert-help` post in the `obsidian-support` forum of the [Obsidian TTRPG Community Discord](https://discord.gg/Zpmr37Uv).
- There is a TTRPG-convert tutorial (currently aimed at Windows users, but much of it is helpful no matter your OS) at [Obsidian TTRPG Tutorials](https://obsidianttrpgtutorials.com/Obsidian+TTRPG+Tutorials/Plugin+Tutorials/TTRPG-Convert-CLI/TTRPG-Convert-CLI+5e).
- If you open an issue for an error, run with the `--debug` and `--log` options, and attach the log file to the issue.

### Want to help fix it?

- If you're familiar with the command line and are comfortable running the tool, I hope you'll consider running [unreleased snapshots](docs/alternateRun.md#using-unreleased-snapshots) and reporting issues.
- If you want to contribute, I'll take help of all kinds: documentation, examples, sample templates, stylesheets are just as important as Java code. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Other notes

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework. If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its website: <https://quarkus.io/>.

This project is a derivative of [fc5-convert-cli](https://github.com/ebullient/fc5-convert-cli), which focused on working to and from FightClub5 Compendium XML files. It has also stolen some bits and pieces from [pockets-cli](https://github.com/ebullient/pockets-cli).

[5etools JSON]: https://wiki.tercept.net/en/Homebrew/FromZeroToHero

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ebullient" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/v2/default-blue.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 60px !important;width: 217px !important;" ></a>

[^1]: Description of relative vs absolute file paths: <https://stackoverflow.com/a/10288252> . If you use a relative path, it will be resolved relative to the current working directory, as described here: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_directory>.
