docs/templates/dnd5e/QuteRace.md, before:

# QuteRace

5eTools race attributes (`race2md.txt`)

Extension of [Tools5eQuteBase](Tools5eQuteBase.md).

## Attributes

[ability](#ability), [description](#description), [fluffImages](#fluffimages), [hasSections](#hassections), [labeledSource](#labeledsource), [name](#name), [size](#size), [source](#source), [sourceAndPage](#sourceandpage), [speed](#speed), [spellcasting](#spellcasting), [tags](#tags), [text](#text), [traits](#traits), [type](#type), [vaultPath](#vaultpath)


### ability

Ability scores associated with this race (comma-separated list of scores or choices)

### description

Formatted text describing the race. Optional. Same as {resource.text}

### fluffImages

List of images for this race (as [ImageRef](../ImageRef.md))

### hasSections

True if the content (text) contains sections

### labeledSource

Formatted string describing the content's source(s): `_Source: <sources>_`

### name

Note name

### size

Size: Small or Medium

### source

String describing the content's source(s)

### sourceAndPage

Book sources as list of [SourceAndPage](../SourceAndPage.md)

### speed

Speed: 30 ft. May include additional values, like flight or swim speed.

### spellcasting

Spellcasting ability score

### tags

Collected tags for inclusion in frontmatter

### text

Formatted text. For most templates, this is the bulk of the content.

### traits

Formatted text with subsections describing racial traits

### type

race or subrace

### vaultPath

Path to this note in the vault

Commit message:

📝 update doc for type of race

docs/templates/dnd5e/QuteRace.md, after:

# QuteRace

5eTools race attributes (`race2md.txt`)

Extension of [Tools5eQuteBase](Tools5eQuteBase.md).

## Attributes

[ability](#ability), [description](#description), [fluffImages](#fluffimages), [hasSections](#hassections), [labeledSource](#labeledsource), [name](#name), [size](#size), [source](#source), [sourceAndPage](#sourceandpage), [speed](#speed), [spellcasting](#spellcasting), [tags](#tags), [text](#text), [traits](#traits), [type](#type), [vaultPath](#vaultpath)


### ability

Ability scores associated with this race (comma-separated list of scores or choices)

### description

Formatted text describing the race. Optional. Same as {resource.text}

### fluffImages

List of images for this race (as [ImageRef](../ImageRef.md))

### hasSections

True if the content (text) contains sections

### labeledSource

Formatted string describing the content's source(s): `_Source: <sources>_`

### name

Note name

### size

Size: Small or Medium

### source

String describing the content's source(s)

### sourceAndPage

Book sources as list of [SourceAndPage](../SourceAndPage.md)

### speed

Speed: 30 ft. May include additional values, like flight or swim speed.

### spellcasting

Spellcasting ability score

### tags

Collected tags for inclusion in frontmatter

### text

Formatted text. For most templates, this is the bulk of the content.

### traits

Formatted text with subsections describing racial traits

### type

type of race or subrace (humanoid, ooze, undead, etc.)

### vaultPath

Path to this note in the vault
